# auth

A collection of authentication and authorization implementations for AWS API Gateway.

[basic authentication scheme]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication#Basic_authentication_scheme
[HTTP authentication framework]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication#The_general_HTTP_authentication_framework

- [auth](#auth)
  - [To do](#to-do)
  - [Basic](#basic)
    - [Features](#features)
    - [Usage](#usage)
      - [Deploying with terraform](#deploying-with-terraform)
      - [Adding an API consumer](#adding-an-api-consumer)
      - [Adding an API consumer via the API](#adding-an-api-consumer-via-the-api)
      - [Viewing API consumers](#viewing-api-consumers)
      - [Viewing usage for an API consumer](#viewing-usage-for-an-api-consumer)
      - [Troubleshooting API consumer access](#troubleshooting-api-consumer-access)
      - [Updating an API consumer](#updating-an-api-consumer)
      - [Disabling an API consumer](#disabling-an-api-consumer)
  - [IAM](#iam)
  - [JWT](#jwt)

## To do

- [ ] split out basic vs basic with api key
- [ ] deploy with serverless or deploy with terraform or cloudformation + aws one-click
- [ ] strip credentials from header before proceeding to lambda
- [ ] ensure API gateway enforces API key usage identifier
- [ ] terraform the creation of the usage plan
- [ ] ensure documentation exists for how to update a swagger document with api key and authorizer support

## Basic

This authentication strategy implements the [basic authentication scheme] of the [HTTP authentication framework].

This scheme transmits username and password credentials as a base64 encoded string, provided in the `Authorization` header.

**Important**: Since the username and password are passed over the network as clear text, the basic authentication scheme is not secure by itself. It must be used in conjunction with HTTPS/TLS.

This repository provides a [sample implementation](./basic/README.md) for this authentication strategy.

Browse the `./basic/` directory for a sample implementation that uses:

- API Gateway
- Lambda Authorizer
- Lambda
- Parameter Store
- Terraform

### Features

- Reads available roles and policies from Lambda environment variables
- Looks up consumer credentials in the Parameter Store
- Looks up consumer API key in the Parameter Store

### Usage

- Ensure all API methods require API keys
- Create an API key for your API consumer
- Configure settings in the parameter store

Configure your keys with the following namespace:

`/<application>/<username>/password`
`/<application>/<username>/whitelist`
`/<application>/<username>/apiKey`

#### Deploying with terraform

```
terraform init
terraform apply
```

#### Adding an API consumer

```
{
  "password": "1234",
  "role": "creator"
  "apiKey": "something"
}
```

#### Adding an API consumer via the API

```
REQUEST
POST /consumers
"Authorization": "SomeAdminApiKey"
{
  "username": "MyBackendService",
  "role": "SomeRole"
}
RESPONSE
{
  "username": "MyBackendService",
  "password": "AutogeneratedPassword",
  "role": "SomeRole",
  "apiKey": "AutogeneratedApiKey"
}
```

#### Viewing API consumers

```
REQUEST
GET /consumers
RESPONSE
[
  {
    "username": "MyBackendService",
    "role": "SomeRole",
    "usage": "https://example.com/usage"
  }
]
```

```
REQUEST
GET /consumers.html
RESPONSE
Shows consumers, and provides an `add consumer` button and form
```

#### Viewing usage for an API consumer

#### Troubleshooting API consumer access

#### Updating an API consumer

#### Disabling an API consumer

## IAM

This authentication strategy uses IAM and resource policies to control access to API Gateway resources and methods.

Coming soon.

## JWT

This authentication strategy uses a JWT bearer token to control access to API Gateway resources and methods.

Coming soon.
